few creatures can survive this far into
total darkness
oh my god
i don't believe what i'm seeing
this is a swimming cricket ah
oh my god it's a female it's an adult
female
this is one of the weirdest cave animals
i've ever seen
crickets are common around the world but
this one
is entirely different
in mastering this environment using only
touch and taste
this strange looking animal has become
the apex predator
there is an animal perfectly adapted
for life as a hunter in pitch dartmouth
it's got everything it needs it's got
long antennae it's got these
very sensitive tarps here for feeling
its prey
and it's got these amazingly spiny legs
so as soon as it
meets something feels it the legs come
in the spines are there
and then grab them between these
enormous great jaws
this is the line of the cave this is
this is um
something you don't want to meet if
you're a bug
look at her look at her oh she's big oh
god she is strong
and she's trying to bite my finger
she is trying to slice through my thumb
oh look i'm not even holding it just go
away
please this is the only way she's gonna
let go
isolated for millions of years in a cave
with limited prey
this animal has evolved to hunt both on
land
and underwater making the most of its
uniquely demanding habitat
oh man just the perfect animal for a
cave
you